# Macros

A macro is a single instruction that expands into a predefined set of
instructions to perform a particular task.

**NOTE**: the syntax for macros differs by assembler. 

For example, when using NASM (Netwid Assemble), the `exit` keyword 
expands into:

```asm
mov rax, 60
mov rdi, 0
syscall
```

## Defining Macros 

A macro is composed of 3 sections:
1. `<name>`: The name of the macro, used to call it in the code
2. `<argc>`: The number of arguments the macro will take
3. `<macro body>`: The definition of the macro 

```asm
%macro <name> <argc>
    ...
    <macro body>
    ...
%endmacro
```

## Example

- `exit` macro:

```asm 
%macro exit 0
    mov rax, 60
    mov rdi, 0
    syscall
%endmacro
```

## Arguments for Macros

`<argc>` is the number of arguments the macro takes. Arguments are 
*inputs* that can be passed into the macro.

Within the macro body, these inputs are referenced using `%1` for the first input, `%2` for the second and so on.

## Macro for printing a digit 

For the "printDigit" macro, argc is 1 because it takes 1 argument 
(the digit).

For the "exit" macro, argc is 0 because it takes no arguments.

When we use "printDigit" in code under _start, we specify a number 
after it, that is our first argument.

When we use "exit", we specify no numbers after it because it takes 
no arguments.

```asm
%%macro exit 0
    mov rax, 60
    mov rdi, 0
    syscall
%endmacro

macro printDigit 1
    mov rax, %1 
    call _printRAXDigit
%endmacro

_start:
    printDigit 3 
    printDigit 4 
    
    exit
```

## Local Labels in Macros 

As we've learned, macros are expanded upon compilation into 
predefined code. 

If that code contains a label, this can cause duplicate label error 
if the macro is used more than once.

The following code *should* raise a `Redefined Symbol Error` upon compilation:

```asm 
%macro freeze 0
_loop:
    jmp _loop 
%endmacro

_start:
_loop:
    jmp _loop
_loop:
    jmp _loop
    exit
```

This problem can be solved by using `%%` before label names within 
a macro.

This will make it so that the label is unique every time it is 
expanded.

```asm 
%macro freeze 0
%%loop:
    jmp %%loop 
%endmacro
```

## Defining Values with EQU

EQU is used for defininf constants for future use.

The following code for printing "Hello, World!":

```asm 
section .data
        text db "Hello, World!", 10

section .text
        global _start

_start:
        mov rax, 1 
        mov rdi, 1 
        mov rsi, text 
        mov rdx, 14 
        syscall 

        mov rax, 60
        mov rdi, 0
        syscall 
```

Could be rewritten using constants to make the code more readable:

```asm 
STDIN equ 0
STDOUT equ 1 
STDERR equ 2 

SYS_READ equ 0
SYS_WRITE equ 1 
SYS_EXIT equ 60

section .data
        text db "Hello, World!", 10

section .text
        global _start

_start:
        mov rax, 1 
        mov rdi, 1 
        mov rsi, text 
        mov rdx, 14 
        syscall 

        mov rax, 60
        mov rdi, 0
        syscall 
```

## Including External Files

A single assembly program can be broken up into multiple files by 
using `include`.

`include` will load and external file's code and insert it into the position in which it is included upon compilation.

Macros and EQU definitions are often defined inside of included 
files.

`%include "filename.asm`

This "Hello, World!" code works because the "print" and "exit" 
macros are already defined in the "linux64.inc" file.

```asm 
%include "linux64.inc"

section .data
        text db "Hello, World!", 10, 0

section .text
        global _start 

_start:
        print text
        exit 
```
